>> Mike: All right, so as we approach
sort of the final punchline of this
course here, I want to talk
a little bit about networking.
We've done a lot to improve
the loading performance and
the capabilities of our applications
through changing our own code.
But we've still been using
a CTP 1,which for decades,
that has been the foundation of how we
send web pages from servers to clients.
And where we used to be looking
at Wikipedia articles,right,
documents in the document view.
And that was usually one
to three HTTP requests,
like the idea of external style sheets,
that was a wild
concept 20 years ago when
these standards were designed.
Now things look very different.
Now these rich clients
that we're building,
they have a lot more resources and we're
trying to split things apart in such a way
that users have to download
only what they need.
And there are a lot more connections
going on than we used to see.
HTTP/2 is the next generation of the HTTP
protocol that aims to give us some
very meaningful improvements.
So the first improvement you'll notice
is that this is fully multiplexed.
Meaning we're not asking for files one
at a time with independent connections.
We initiate a single connection and
then we can receive multiple
independent files in parallel, right?
So it's not like I wanna stream
you one piece of data and stop and
here's another one.
Servers can push responses
onto client caches.
And what that means is,
you can think of it as, I ask a server for
index.html, and
it's gonna send me the HTML.
And before it even gets another word from
me, it'll start to send me the JavaScript,
and maybe some images, and things that it
know corresponds to that HTML document.
And basically by the time
the browser starts reading it,
it's gonna say,
I need this piece of JavaScript.
And it'll go and see that,
it's already on its way to me.
It's halfway here, and
I just have to wait for it to arrive.
So this really makes it so that you're no
longer waiting for that HTML document.
Looking at that, figuring out what
additional resources you need to get.
And its no longer sort of waterfall
approach to sending everything you need in
order to get that page on te screen.
That's what we mean by push,
a client ask for one thing you can send
that think back and push three
other things, or n other things.
So we already talked about some
problems with HTTP/1.1, and
it's gotten a lot better, right?
So the average connection now is much
better than it was 10 years ago.
Round trip time is still
kind of where it's been.
And in terms of thinking about mobile
networks, some rules of thumb are,
if you're on an LTE connection.
That is, a single digit number of
milliseconds of extra latency,
round trip, relative to being on WiFi or
something, you've a little bit extra.
For 3G, you add 1 to 300 milliseconds
of extra round trip time.
And then if you're on 2G connection,
that's like a full second
of extra round trip time.
So we need a way that we're not
having a serial chain of
multiple request back and forth.
Because on older devices and
older networks,
and on things that or
often like Li-Fi, right?
We end up having really
inappropriate load times,
upwards of 20 seconds just because it's so
much back and forth.
>> Mike: And as I pointed out,
I've had a lot of files here think
about all these grocery images.
Right, the HTTP/1.1 approach would have
me making something like a sprite.
Where I'd put all of those images
under one big mega image and use CSS
background positioning or something to
try and consolidate those resources.
I don't wanna do that, I wanna have
them all as original files, so
I only send the one I need.
And I shouldn't have to pay extra
bandwidth in order to get my
number of requests down, right?
Having my mega image that has 15
grocery items that I don't need,
that should not be the solution.
And HTTP/2 makes some
massive improvements there.
So here's a waterfall of view, Steve,
do you remember which site this was?
Dinosaur.js?
>> Steve: That is FrontEndMasters.com.
>> Mike: FrontEndMasters.com.
114 independent requests in
order to get that page loaded.
That's one per image, one per external
stylesheet, script, fav icon.
All of these little things add up.
If you're using WebApp manifest,
that is a separate request there.
If you're using an AppCache,
that asset manifest is a separate request.
It adds up really, really quickly.
>> Steve: And
I will say that is like average.
>> Mike: We're not trying to shame here,
this is a real number here.
>> Steve: Most pages that I looked at for
this screenshot were in that same number.
>> Mike: Absolutely, but it's pretty
terrifying when you think about
the overhead for each connection, right?
So what this has led to,
the fact that we're building on
this same HTTP/1.1 protocol.
We've been using it for
many decades,is we've learned
to stick to certain conventions.
And we've learned certain hacks
that we can use in order to avoid
letting this hold us back too much.
So one of them is reusing connections and
that just means having many
things hosted on a single domain.
So you can establish that TLS connection,
and
get your DNS resolution out of the way,
and then hit that a few times.
The modern browsers will
allow between six and
nine simultaneous connections per domain.
So if you need more than that 114, right?
We need to shard our resources, so
that we can download like two pieces
of JavaScript from this one thing and
six images and time from this other thing.
And if you look at something
like webpage test, and
that was a screenshot
of webpage test there.
And have a lot of images on
the screen that are all competing for
this connection.
You can actually watch that six start and
then one has to finish
before the seventh begins.
So it's almost like you have a pool and
you cannot go over six.
This is really bad.
>> Mike: So, the good news is that HTTP/2
from our standpoint as developers,
is largely not something
that we need to worry about.
All of the HTTP/1 work we've
done will also work in HTTP/2.
This is really important for
adoption, because it means that
companies like ACMI and
CloudFlare that can upgrade their CDNs.
And they can start to roll this
stuff out without waiting for
apps to retrofit something.
All of your stuff should still work, but
the big differences here are that we can
send multiple files over one connection
avoiding that repeated overhead.
And we can bake information
that we know at build time
about certain types of requests and
proactively push
resources to the client that
we know are part of that.
So if you've heard of code splitting or
route splitting,
the idea of on an orders page,
we need maybe some extra JavaScript there
or some style that only pertains to that.
That would only be included if that's
what's going to be on the screen.
And we can push that extra CSS file and
that extra JavaScript file.
We can sort of slice
things up very smartly and
not pay the typical price of having so
many different files to download.
>> Speaker 3: You mean
instead of bundling but
lazy loading different parts of the app.
Is that what you mean?
>> Mike: So bundling is important
because that's how we're going to get
all of these files.
But if you have 50 different
routes in your app,
50 different meaningful
URLs that people had.
You can end up with one JavaScript
file that represents the core
stuff that you need regardless of route.
And then a per route file
that when combined with the core is like
everything you will need for that URL.
When we start talking about
architecture patterns in a few minutes.
That basically lets you get away with
sending, only if the JavaScript, and
only if the CSS that's absolutely
needed from the server to the client,
in order to get that page
rendered as quickly as possible.
But that involves slicing things up
very cleverly, if that makes sense, and
then lazily loading others.
>> Mike: So this concept of
pipelining versus not pipelining,
this is just the idea of this
concept of HTTP/2 push, right?
So on the left with no pipelining,
this is the HTTP/1.1 idea.
Where we kind of ask for index.html and
then we discover that we need the CSS.
And only at that moment does
that new request go out.
On the right, we know about these things.
We've built the applications, and
we can package things together and
we know exactly what's gonna be
required for our app to render.
So, in terms of browser support,
this should be quite encouraging.
This is something that has been
worked on for a long time.
And it is supported basically
everywhere that you care about.
Even looking at IE, because back to IE11.
Often times the way you're gonna wanna set
this up, particularly if you use Node,
it's not safe to have Node open
to a long living connection.
Cuz remember we have one thread,
it's not more safe to let
Node have a long connection.
Where it's pipelining
a bunch of files back than it
is to have it reading a QR code for
20 seconds.
It's locked up and busy doing one thing.
Which prevents it from
exercising its super power
of doing a bunch of
multitasked tiny things that
have a high degree of concurrency
even though there's no parallelism.
So typically what you'll do is you'll
have HTTP/1.1 on your application server.
And then you might have an Edge server,
like Engine X is a popular one.
And that will act as what's
called an HTTP/2 proxy.
And basically take care of
transforming the stuff in
the data center into H2 pushes to clients.
So oftentimes the browser will be able
to hit that with either protocol.
And if they don't support the new stuff,
if you're using IE 10,
often these proxies will
have no trouble just passing
straight through and
stepping down to the 1.1.
>> Speaker 3: So
this raises an important question.
Not important, I mean it's interesting
to me that what is the adoption gap for?
>> Mike: So
when you talk about an adoption gap,
there are a couple of different
adoption things that need to happen.
And in order for
us to really take advantage of HTTP/2,
a lot of infrastructure
has to be converted over.
The first adoption gap was
CDNs like Akamai, right?
Where it doesn't matter were your
little Engine X server does what it's
supposed to do.
Or if you're on Amazon and
you've got an EC2 machine and
you have installed an H2 server and
you're serving it up.
If you're going through CloudFront or
going through their network
infrastructure, if at any point along the
way there's something that only supports
1.1, you're stepped back down to
1.1 when talking to that browser.
So you need the devices to support it,
you need the Edge
network technology to support it,
you need the CDNs to support it.
And we are finally there.
There's really no excuse for adoption,
other than that developers need to
know how to take advantage of it.
In most cases, if you're serving from CDN,
it's already using HTTP/2.
But in terms of like asset serving layer,
like this thing that we've been
hitting localhost 3000, that's where
we need to start as developers
adopting technology like Webpack.
And working things into it that
help us initiate the push,
right, initiate that pipeline request.
Cuz our CDN can't help us with that.
That has to happen right at
the heart of the application
as we serve up the next.html.
>> Speaker 3: So
are there any good libraries,
or is it like you still use the Webpack,
but you do things differently?
>> Mike: So
if you use Firebase's style of coasting,
all you need to do on your HTML documents
is add a couple little headers.
You have to work with the link header and
you can go and
look at the documentation for that.
Or maybe in the Firebase course,
we may or may not have that in there.
But it's pretty easy,and again,
you just have to leave some clues and
then serve it up in HTTP/1.1.
And then if you handle assembling
those clues like the special header,
then at the CDN level,
Firebase's edge servers will take care of
optimizing that and pushing the resources
that you specify in the headers.
So really the adoption problem is over,
now it's
about developers taking that next step and
taking advantage of what's available.